example2 script

Welcome back everyone to the second video, today we're going to go over some interesting concepts

Remember in the last variable we couldn't just call a variable because it tried to find a method?

We will look into how to deal with that with attr_accessor in ruby

We will also be talking about creating arrays of clsses as well as accessing and getting info from these array of classes

Here in this example you can see I've kept the parent and children class from the previous video

But you may have noticed something new, the container class

It's a good habit to try and contain everything within classes.

This container class will help us hold the array of classes so we can create many classes and easily access them

First you can see we once again defined a initialize method, but inside we have @array equals to open bracket close bracket

This means we are initializing an array of an undefined amount of size, but we can continue to append to that array

Here we will write a method to add classes to the array

Here I will use i is equal to one plus rand forty two so we can pass this value to the children for their @attack

Here we will set a variable equal to a new children class. 

Great, lastly we can now append this and add this to our array

There is two ways we can add to our array, either with these operators or using .push

You could technically remove the whole add equals stuff and straight up put Children.new(i) into the array

But for clairity of this video we will do it like this

Great all done! Let's go ahead and show you how it works

Here I will create a new container example, and we will go ahead and add one new chilren to the container

Now to access the children we just made we'd access it like any array and start at the index zero which is where the class we just added is

Let's go ahead and try this

<compile, error>

Uh oh we got an error, it seems that it's looking for an method called array[0] which is not what we want

How do we fix this? We need to change the property of the variable to let the compiler know we are looking for an array, not a method

To do this we will use attr_accessor in ruby. 

For python it is a someone else.

Here we will uncomment this line to attr_accessor our array that we made earlier

Great, let's try compiling it again

<compile, show it works>

Look no errors and it displayed the attack from the children class!

Pretty cool huh?

We're not done yet, let's go a bit crazy.

<uncomment other example>

Here we will go ahead and add nine more children to the container.

I will output the iteration so you can see how many children we are adding.

Down here we will now go through and display attack of all the children

You will see we used .size at the end of the array.

This is because example.array is a array and because it is it has a size. 

We want to go through all children inside the array, so .size will return us back the size

Let's show all the attack of each children inside our array

<compile, run code>

That's it! 

The video seemed like alot of stuff but I wanted to show that creating a class array is quite simple

Accessing that array can be done through attr_accessor, and this will permit us to access and get info from the class

This is a very powerful tool to stay organized and keep your code clean

Although not required this will make the project much easier for you if you can implement a container with an array of classes

That is it! Next video we will look into class interactions, good luck!


